whonix_firewall(8) -- Whonix Firewall
=============================================

<span class="comment">
# Copyright (C) 2012 - 2020 ENCRYPTED SUPPORT LP <adrelanos@riseup.net>
# See the file COPYING for copying conditions.
</span>

## SYNOPSIS

`whonix_firewall`

## DESCRIPTION

Gets autostarted by default. Only useful to start manually, if you changed
settings in `/etc/whonix_firewall.d/` configuration folder and did not restart.

## RETURN VALUES

0 Success

1 Error

## EXAMPLE

`sudo whonix_firewall`

## WHONIX-WORKSTATION FIREWALL DESIGN NOTES

* Whonix-Gateways Firewall is responsible for routing all traffic over Tor.
* Whonix-Workstation Firewall is much less important than the
  Whonix-Gateway Firewall.
* Staying anonymous, is by Whonix design, not dependent on Whonix-Workstations
  Firewall. You could drop this firewall at all and were still anonymous.
  This was always and will always be that way for all Whonix versions.
* Whonix-Workstation Firewall script provides only damage limitation.
* Some additional security.
* For example, if Tor on Whonix-Gateway were compromised through a
  zero day exploit, it were harder to attack Whonix-Workstation, which might
  contain confidential data.
* When using multiple Whonix-Workstations on Non-Qubes-Whonix, this offers
  some protection from attacks from compromised other Whonix-Workstations, see
  https://www.whonix.org/wiki/Multiple_Whonix-Workstations for details.
* Whonix-Workstation Firewall might also enhance the connectivity of certain
  custom installed applications, because it rejects traffic, which is
  not supported by Tor so or so, such as UDP and ICMP. For example, ping
  will fail instantly (reject), instant of waiting for a timeout (drop).

## WWW

https://www.whonix.org

## AUTHOR

This man page has been written by Patrick Schleizer (adrelanos@riseup.net).
